[Music]
José María Benito,
police inspector and regular contributor to
television studios when it comes to
high-profile cases, as my
colleague José said, the Daniel Sánchez case has
been one of them, a police inspector,
a veteran of the
television world. Well, the world, well,
society in general and the world of
gossip is totally shocked by
what has happened with what is
happening with the Anabel
Pantoja case. Just look, without
going into details,
just by saying that both she and
her partner David are being
investigated for being
allegedly responsible for the
crime of child abuse of their daughter
Alma. Without going into details, which we'll
get into now, people are, well, on
the street in general, everyone is
commenting on this issue, not about,
without going into more details. Because it
seems to them like something that, that, that it can't
be, it's not like, as I'm telling you,
gyms on the street are very popular, no,
no, how can it be, how can
something like that be, no, without going into details,
no, obviously there are  that to go in to
understand a little what is
happening no good it is It must be said that it is
normal not when it is about a
famous couple eh where I believe that all of Spain
has been following During the days that
the little girl has been admitted eh her
evolution even Well everyone
wishing of course It would be lacking nothing but
the best not for that for
that little girl and well to avoid what
in principle was the suffering of some
parents because it has become has
become Well, in something that has broken
the news precisely because of this
investigation that a court has
opened for this alleged mistreatment
we will see what becomes of it and now
we will comment but in any case
the judicial procedure is open and
well at the expense of what
the court may determine of course Eh In the end of
course it is known well the prosecutor's office of Las
Palmas de Gran Canaria and well it is known
perfectly well that it is good that the
girl Right now she remains under the
guardianship of eh of the parents that no
precautionary measure has been adopted despite the fact
that in this case the penal code
sometimes contemplates if I am not mistaken
for this modality  uh Sometimes
it can lead to a sentence, right, of
imprisonment, in other cases I
mean, yes, yes, without a doubt, not only
a prison sentence, but
also the withdrawal of parental
rights from parents who allegedly,
and I'm talking about other cases now, may have
mistreated
a baby, no, and therefore, well, not
only a prison sentence, but the withdrawal
of parental rights and they would have to
take charge, as has been done in
many cases, well, uh, the
social services, in this case, in the Canary Islands. No, of
course, what has been understood here is that
the legal requirements were not met, that is,
no,
no risk was seen in the minor, uh, because she
continued uh with her parents. So, that
is what they commented in
a statement that they made, that
the girl is happy, that she is with them,
that she is fine. And from this
public ministry, well, they have clarified that, that there is no
risk in her continuing
with her parents, so it is understood,
of course, as is what we say, she has
made a statement. Uh, we do not know if today,
uh, she is going to speak publicly and  Of course, for
the moment the investigation continues,
so they have not wanted to
go much further into the subject, eh. No.
What is the next step that eh or what
are the next steps, not at the
judicial level, that have to be taken,
what I would like to do is tell you, eh,
why these procedures are initiated,
which I believe is the most important thing,
all of us, well all of us, many people, we have had
little ones, we have had children that we have
taken to the hospital. Well, in
difficult circumstances. No, well,
believing that something was wrong with them. eh.
Well, since it must have been more or less
serious, all parents do it. No,
why does the fact occur that a
doctor, an emergency service in a
hospital sends a report, what is
called a judicial report, which is when
the doctors consider that there may be
a criminal act in the
illness or in the ailments or in the
pathology that the baby suffers from, no, and I
believe that here is the key, no, eh, the
problem. From what I understand, and
from what I know so far, is that the
parents, eh, when they take the child to the hospital, they do
not tell the doctors what
could have happened, that is to say, what, what  They
give it as something that has suddenly arisen
that has suddenly happened and when you do not give
explanations of what could have
happened that it may not be
criminal, that is to say that you because a child has
fallen because a child well eh eh you
have practiced some maneuver not
appropriate for that age it is not always
criminal but of course what is the problem
in this case the problem in this case is
that the parents do not give any
explanation when they arrive at the hospital of
what could have happened to that
baby and that is when
the
communication protocol to the court is initiated or when it is established. Well,
a child has come here in
somewhat delicate circumstances eh And the parents do not
state what could have
happened and that is why
this procedure is initiated. Of course, of course, because as far as we
all understand,
before this in the public hospital
where they went in the Canary Islands. But before
that, I imagine and I tell you, I imagine eh, they
visited a private hospital that Well,
I don't know there, I imagine that there they do not
render so many accounts or I do not know, I do not know, they do not
ask for so many  explanations in
this sense Yes yes yes the protocol is the
same what happens is that
surely surely Well, the hospital
if they went which I don't know if they
went but if they went to a
private hospital previously it
is surely a private hospital, he told him Look, I don't
have the adequate means here to
treat this child and therefore I
refer him to a public hospital but there is no
doubt that the protocols are the
same for any doctor, I'm not saying
hospital but any doctor that you
go to for a consultation and he has suspicions
that there are signs of Well, what
seems strange to me Marina is that they go
two days before to the private hospital but they
went to one or they went to two it's that I think they go
to one but even so two days
before and the hospital tells you Hey, we
don't have the means to take it clearly we are
talking about that So this doesn't happen anymore
no Jose that you many times they
tell you look your son
has a serious problem if they don't
treat him in a private hospital it is because it has to
be very serious and they tell you Hey
no it was very serious it was very serious and it takes you
two days to take him that's not
enough either but no no no but  that's not right it's not it's not it's
not it takes him to the doctor one day
and he comes back and then he takes him to the
doctor another day and from one doctor they send him
to the other Yeah, I mean the transfer is
immediate I think man It
would be too negligent, the
doctor who says because the first doctor
Yes, it takes two days No, yes, the
first doctor of course It's that I don't know why
the girl doesn't stay admitted on the
doctor's first day if she had already
given a scare the truth is I think that's
what he said I'm telling you I did
n't know I thought that in
private hospitals no the protocol
itself was not the same eh As for clear the
same eh well I'm not so clear about it
why not the same as more privacy that of course of course it's
more privacy of course I think
that in I think except I've seen
the medical reports flying from the chiron
Well but Normally there is supposed to be
more privacy no that yes it's like yes yes
I think that what they were looking for was
really but of course eh of course for a
matter of means and such
Well if you have private if you
have private insurance you always  you go
to the private hospital before the public
hospital, quickly for everything, what surprises me is that it did
n't stay in the private hospital and I'll give you
an example, here in Seville something happened
with a baby who had his
u hit for a long
time but I think it was due to a question
of means, I
think it was about to leave,
kid, sometimes
public hospitals have the means that maybe
a private one doesn't have, a machine,
look, that's
life, sad heart is quite equipped
mqu anything I don't know that,
the truth is, well, they
don't report any type of crime immediately
because it's their obligation and there are these
perfectly established protocols,
of course, I imagine it was the fact of
presenting a head injury
that forced the activation of that
protocol, not of alleged
child abuse that led to the court
number three of Las Palmas de Gran
Canaria, I imagine that was it, of course,
indeed, but But I insist on what
the in in the initial idea I said if you
tell him, if you tell the doctor, well,
look, you had him in your arms and  I do
n't know why I fell and
hit myself, absolutely
nothing happens. In other words, this protocol is not initiated
because there is already a reason, I don't know,
at first the
intention is not appreciated, but the problem is
when you try to hide the reasons why
this child has the
ailment that he has and that is when the
protocol is initiated
[Music]